Fireflies were using this dusty old journal as a resting spot until you scared
them off.  It reads:

Day 1: We have reached what seems to be the final in a series of puzzles
guarding an ancient treasure.  I suspect most adventurers give up long before
this point, but we're so close!  We must press on!

Day 1: P.S.: It's a good thing the island is tropical.  We should have food for
weeks!

Day 2: The vault appears to be sealed by a mysterious force - the door won't
budge an inch.  We don't have the resources to blow it open, and I wouldn't risk
damaging the contents even if we did.  We'll have to figure out the lock
mechanism.

Day 3: The door to the vault has a number carved into it.  Each room leading up
to the vault has more numbers or symbols embedded in mosaics in the floors.  We
even found a strange glass orb in the antechamber on a pedestal itself labeled
with a number.  What could they mean?

Day 5: We finally built up the courage to touch the strange orb in the
antechamber.  It flashes colors as we carry it from room to room, and sometimes
the symbols in the rooms flash colors as well.  It simply evaporates if we try
to leave with it, but another appears on the pedestal in the antechamber shortly
thereafter.  It also seems to do this even when we return with it to the
antechamber from the other rooms.

Day 8: When the orb is carried to the vault door, the numbers on the door flash
black, and then the orb evaporates.  Did we do something wrong?  Doesn't the
door like us?  We also found a small hourglass near the door, endlessly running.
Is it waiting for something?

Day 13: Some of my crew swear the orb actually gets heaver or lighter as they
walk around with it.  Is that even possible?  They say that if they walk through
certain rooms repeatedly, they feel it getting lighter and lighter, but it
eventually just evaporates and a new one appears as usual.

Day 21: Now I can feel the orb changing weight as I walk around.  It depends on
the area - the change is very subtle in some places, but certainly more
noticeable in others, especially when I walk into a room with a larger number or
out of a room marked '*'.  Perhaps we can actually control the weight of this
mysterious orb?

Day 34: One of the crewmembers was wandering the rooms today and claimed that
the numbers on the door flashed white as he approached!  He said the door still
didn't open, but he noticed that the hourglass had run out and flashed black.
When we went to check on it, it was still running like it always does.  Perhaps
he is going mad?  If not, which do we need to appease: the door or the
hourglass?  Both?

Day 55: The fireflies are getting suspicious.  One of them looked at me funny
today and then flew off.  I think I saw another one blinking a little faster
than usual.  Or was it a little slower?  We are getting better at controlling
the weight of the orb, and we think that's what the numbers are all about.  The
orb starts at the weight labeled on the pedestal, and goes down as we leave a
room marked '-', up as we leave a room marked '+', and up even more as we leave
a room marked '*'.  Entering rooms with larger numbers has a greater effect.

Day 89: Every once in a great while, one of the crewmembers has the same story:
that the door flashes white, the hourglass had already run out, it flashes
black, and the orb evaporates.  Are we too slow?  We can't seem to find a way to
make the orb's weight match what the door wants before the hourglass runs out.
If only we could find a shorter route through the rooms...

Day 144: We are abandoning the mission.  None of us can work out the solution to
the puzzle.  I will leave this journal here to help future adventurers, though I
am not sure what help it will give.  Good luck!


Reconstruction of the grid:

 *  8  -  D/1
 4  * 11  *
 +  4  - 18
 S  -  9  *

 With S being the start only to be entered once and sets our variable x = 22
 every move building up a math expression. D is the Door wich expects the
 expression to evaluate to 30. Can only be entered once.
 
 Problem: find the minimum number of moves so the expression is 30 at D with
 cycles allowed
 

 Brute force it: from a simple solution e e w e e n w s n n n s n s e n
 we know that we only can use < the amount of steps it took us wich was 16
 because the houreglass said we are to late

 So we implement a backtracking algorithm wich tries all combinations 
 up to the length 16 steps. We can then take the shortest one as a solution.
